Statement of the Kashag on the 46th Anniversary of Tibetan Democracy Day

On the occasion of 46th anniversary of the birth of the Tibetan
democratic system, founded on the harmonious blend of spiritual and
political values, the Kashag of the Central Tibetan Administration
extends its warm greetings and Tashi Deleg to the Tibetans in Tibet and
in exile. The Kashag also extends its greetings to the governments and
parliaments of the world, the governmental and non-governmental
organisations, the Tibet Support Groups and the international community
who have been consistently showing solidarity and support to us
Tibetans.

Human beings are social animals; they depend on society and
institutions. As such, political systems and government institutions
are the principal means through which the aspirations and welfare of
the general populace are fulfilled. As the system of assembly or
primary gathering, which flourished in India many thousand years ago,
has become one of the best form of political systems in this
post-modern period, His Holiness the Dalai Lama has accordingly nursed
this great desire to transform the Tibetan polity into a democratic one
from the very early age in his life. This noble thought could not be
translated into reality then, due to the Chinese occupation of Tibet.

Soon after his coming into exile however, His Holiness the Dalai Lama
embarked on a major administrative reforms by introducing a democratic
system of governance, thereby leading to the establishment of a
popularly-elected Assembly of Tibetan People’s Deputies on 2 September
1960. This became possible due to the singular efforts of His Holiness
the Dalai Lama. Therefore, today is also an occasion for all the
Tibetans to express our deep sense of gratitude to His Holiness the
Dalai Lama.

During the past forty-six years, the Tibetan exile community has been
able to overcome numerous internal and external obstacles and take to
greater heights the process of democratisation. As a result, even while
we are in exile, we have had the opportunity to practise a complete
system of democratic governance based on the Charter for the
Tibetans-in-exile.

In 1991, the 11th Assembly of Tibetan People’s Deputies acquired the
role of the Constituent Assembly to lay down the Charter for the
Tibetans-in-exile, which was promulgated by His Holiness the Dalai Lama
after giving his assent to it. Since then, the fundamental laws and
institutions of our democracy came to full flowering and became more
stabilised. The three organs of administration — legislature,
executive and judiciary — were instituted based on a fully-entrenched
system of checks and balances and the separation of powers amongst
them. Apart from this, there are three autonomous or constitutional
bodies existing separately. Moreover, there are quite a number of
Tibetan media in existence to promote the right to conscience and
freedom of speech of the Tibetan populace. In short, we have already
put in place a legal framework and the institutions required for a
democracy. If the Tibetan populace in general, and in particular, the
popularly-elected Tibetan deputies are now able to make a legitimate
and proper use of this framework, there is not an iota of doubt that we
will be able to create a peerless democratic society.

However, indispensable qualities of a democracy such as quality
education, independent thinking, understanding and tolerance amongst
different viewpoints and ideologies, acting rationally without giving
in to ignorance, considering the “institution” more important than
“individuals”, and accept the decision of the majority by the minority,
are still lacking amongst the general Tibetan populace. Therefore, I
would like to urge the Tibetans in general, and in particular, the
younger generation who are equipped with both the traditional and
modern education to heed this and work towards developing such a
culture in our community.

I would like to take this opportunity to express our sincere
appreciation to the Tibetan populace at the grass root level for having
been able to uphold the political cause of Tibet despite their
inaccessibility to the regular media and political forums. This is
indeed a matter for all of us to take pride in. Moreover, I would like
to urge all those who opine that the Tibetan exiles are not politically
matured enough to practise a democratic system of governance not to
underestimate the intelligence and political strength of the Tibetan
people.

Finally, I pray for the long life of His Holiness the Dalai Lama and
the flourishing of his great service towards the humanity as a whole.
May the truth of the issue of Tibet prevail soon! Jai Jagata!

The Kashag
2 September 2006